Performance Ethnography GS/THST 6329
Graduate Program in Theatre & Performance Studies 
GS/THST 6329		    COURSE OUTLINE	  	       	        F 2017


COURSE CALENDAR DESCRIPTION

An overview of the field of performance ethnography from interdisciplinary perspectives bridging performance studies, anthropology, cultural studies, sociology and communication studies. Main approaches to performance ethnography will be examined, including performance as ethnographic representation, performance as collaborative ethnographic research methodology, and pedagogical applications of performance ethnography. The seminar will involve the study of performance ethnography texts, performances, and practical exercises.

INSTRUCTOR/FORMAT/TERM/CONTACT INFO

Course Instructor/Contact Info:
Fall Term: 
Dr. Magdalena Kazubowski-Houston 
416-736-2100 ext.  22257
Room 312 CFT
mkazubow@yorku.ca  

Format: This course will consist of weekly three-hour seminar discussions supplemented with in-class film/performance screenings and student presentations. 

Term: Fall/Winter 2017-2018

Course Consultation Hours:  By appointment.


1. SPECIAL FEATURES

Expanded course description: 
This course explores key texts, performances, and recent developments within the field of “imaginative ethnography,” including performance ethnography. Beginning with an overview of key thinkers and practitioners, we will study the major strands in the theory and practice of imaginative ethnography, specifically focusing on: i) imagination as a performative means of representing and communicating fieldwork; ii) imagination as  performative collaborative ethnographic participant observation; iii) imagination as a performative approach to ethnography that engages the ethnographer and research participants as co-performers in the construction of ethnographic knowledge; and iv) pedagogical applications of imaginative ethnography. We will examine selected imaginative ethnography case studies in relation to ethnographic process/product, researcher-participant relationships, content/form/aesthetics, audiences and activism. We will also consider the advantages of using imaginative ethnography as a potentially embodied, sensory, collaborative and interventionist research methodology, and will address the possible challenges of such work. Here, we will focus on the complicated nature of researcher-participant relations, and the tensions between politics and aesthetics, art and “truth,” “raw” research data and performance, ethnographic process and ethnographic product that frame imaginative ethnographic undertakings. Both the short- and long-term impact of selected imaginative ethnography projects on research communities will be considered. Students will be required to familiarize themselves with, and critically analyze, seminal imaginative ethnography texts and projects, and to creatively explore the theories, issues and concepts studied in class through practical imaginative exercises. 

Experiential Education Component: The course involves a series of hands-on workshops, presentations, and performances. 


2. TOPICS AND CONCEPTS
	•	Imaginative ethnography 
	•	Performance ethnography 
	•	Sonic ethnography
	•	Ethnography of silence
	•	Fairy tale ethnography
	•	Literary ethnography
	•	Sensory ethnography
	•	Imaginative practices
	•	Imaginative methodologies
	•	Ethnography of silence
	•	Embodiment 
	•	Affect 

Required Textbooks:
	•	Achino-Loeb, Maria-Luisa, eds. 2005. Silence: The Currency of Power. New 	York & Oxford: Berghahn Books.
	•	Behar, Ruth. 1996. The Vulnerable Observer: Anthropology that Breaks Your              Heart. Boston: Beacon Press. 
	•	Elliot, Denielle and Dara Culhane, eds. 2017. A Different Kind of Ethnography:              Imaginative Practices and Creative Methodologies. Toronto: University of 	Toronto Press.
	•	Irving, Andrew. 2017. The Art of Life and Death. Chicago: University of Chicago 	Press.
	•	Kazubowski-Houston. 2010. Staging Strife: Lessons from Performing 	Ethnography with Polish Roma Women. Montreal & Kingston: McGill 	Queens University Press. 
	•	Pink, Sarah. 2015 (2nd edition). Doing Sensory Ethnography. Thousand Oaks: 	Sage Publications. 
	•	Salazar, Juan Franscisco, Sarah Pink, Andrew Irving, and Johannes Sjöberg, eds. 	2017. Anthropologies and Futures: Researching Emerging and Uncertain 	Worlds. New York: Bloomsbury Publishing, Inc.   
	•	Course Kit (indicated as CK in schedule) – available for purchase in class, or at              Northview Print & Copy, 2700 Steeles Ave West, Unit 1; Tel 905-738-                 5353 


Weekly Schedule of Topics, Fall Semester 2017:

Week 1 – September 11
	•	Introduction  
Week 2 – September 18
	•	Figuring out Anthropology 
Required Readings:   
Behar, Ruth. 1996. The Vulnerable Observer. Anthropology that Breaks Your Heart. 	Boston: Beacon Press.  Moodle:  Carter, Thomas. In press. “Disciplinary Permutations of Ethnography.” Cultural 	Studies-Critical Methdologies, Special Issue, “A Marriage on the Rocks: 	Transdisciplinary Travels of Ethnography.” Kazubowski-Houston, Magdalena & 	Virginie Magnat, eds.    Recommended Readings:   
Gupta, Akhil & James Ferguson. 1997. “Discipline and Practice: ‘The Field’ as Site, 	Method, and Location in Anthropology.” Pp. 1-46. In Anthropological Locations: 	Boundaries and Grounds of a Field Science, Gupta, Akhil & James Ferguson, 	eds. University of California Press: Berkeley. 
Peirano, Mariza. 1998. “When Anthropology is at Home: The Different Contexts of a             Single Discipline.” Annual Review of Anthropology 27: 105-128. Rosaldo, Renato. [1989] 2001. “After Objectivism.” In Culture and Truth: The 	Remaking of Social Analysis. Boston: Beacon Press.


Week 3 – September 25
	•	Figuring Out (Imaginative) Ethnography 
Required Readings:   
Moodle:
Turner, Victor and Edith Turner. 1982. “Performing Ethnography.” The Drama Review              (TDR) 26(2): 33-50.
CK: 
Abu-Lughod, Lila. 1991. “Writing Against Culture.” Pp. 137-154. In Recapturing 	Anthropology: Working in the Present, Richard Fox, ed. Santa Fe: School of 	American Research Press.
Clifford, James. 1986. “Introduction: Partial Truths.” Pp. 1-26. In Writing 	Culture: The              Poetics and Politics of Ethnography. Berkeley: University of California Press. 
Conquergood, Dwight. 2013. “Beyond Text: Toward a Performative Cultural 	Politics.” Pp. 47-63. In Cultural Struggles: Performance, Ethnography, and 	Praxis. Ann Arbour: The University of Michigan Press. 
Madison, D. Soyini. 2010. “Introduction.” Pp. 1-33. In Acts of Activism: Human Rights             as Radical Performance. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.

Recommended Readings:   
Culhane, Dara. 2011. “Stories and Plays: Ethnography, Performance and Ethical 
	Engagements.” Anthropologica 53(2): 229-243.
Mienczakowski, Jim. 1995. “The Theatre of Ethnography: The Reconstruction of 	Ethnography into Theatre with Emancipatory Potential.” Qualitative Inquiry 1: 	360-375. 
Week 4 –  October 2
	•	Performance Ethnography 
Required Readings:  
Kazubowski-Houston. 2010. Staging Strife: Lessons from Performing
	Ethnography with Polish Roma Women. Montreal & Kingston: McGill Queens              University Press. 
CK:  Fabian, Johannes. 1990. “Reflections on Ethnography.” Pp. 3-20. In Power and 	Performance: Ethnographic Explorations through Proverbial Wisdom and 	Theatre bin Shaba, Zaire. Madison: The University of Wisconsin Press.

Recommended Readings:  
Denzin, Norman. 2003. Performance Ethnography: Critical Pedagogy and the Politics of 	Culture. Thousand Oaks: Sage Publications Inc.
Saldaña, Johnny. 2003. “Dramatizing Data: A Primer.” Qualitative Inquiry 9(2): 218-             236.

October 9 –  Thanksgiving – No Class

Week 5 –  October 16
	•	Sensory and Digital Ethnography 
Required Readings:   
Pink, Sarah. 2015 (2nd edition). Doing Sensory Ethnography. Thousand Oaks: Sage 	Publications. 
CK:  Pink, Sarah, Heather Horst, John Postill, Larissa Hjort, Tania Lewis, and Jo Tacchi, eds.              2015. “Ethnography in the Digital World.” Pp. 1-19. In Digital Ethnography:                Principles and Practice. Thousand Oaks: Sage Publications. 



Recommended Readings:   
Pink, Sarah. 2008. “An Urban Tour: The Sensory Sociality of Ethnographic Place-	Making.” Ethnography 9(2): 175-196.

Week 6 –  October 23
	•	Researching Futures
Required Readings:   
Salazar, Juan Franscisco, Sarah Pink, Adnrew Irving, and Johannes Sjöberg, eds. 2017.              Anthropologies and Futures: Researching Emerging and Uncertain Worlds. New              York: Bloomsbury Publishing, Inc. 

Recommended Readings
Madison, D.  Soyini. 2006. “The Dialogic Performative in Critical Ethnography.” Text 	and Performance Quarterly 26(4): 320-324. Rusted, Brian. 2012. “Introduction: From Ethnography of Performance to Performance
	Ethnography.” Canadian Theatre Review 151: 3-5.

Week 7 –  October 30
	•	Performing Interiority 
Required Readings:   
Irving, Andrew. 2017. The Art of Life and Death. Chicago: University of Chicago 	Press.

Recommended Readings:   
Magnat, Virginie. 2011. “Conducting Embodied Research at the Intersection of 	Performance Studies, Experimental Ethnography and Indigenous Methodologies.” 
            Anthropologica 53(2): 213-227.
Papa, Lee and Luke Eric Lassiter. 2003. “The Muncie Race Riots of 1967: Representing 	Community Memory Through Public Performance, and Collaborative 	Ethnography Between Faculty, Students, and the Local Community.” Journal of 	Contemporary Ethnography 32(2):147-166.

Week 8 –  November 6
	•	Imaginative Ethnography
Required Readings:   
Elliot, Denielle and Dara Culhane, eds. 2017. A Different Kind of Ethnography: 	Imaginative Practices and Creative Methodologies. Toronto: University of 	Toronto Press. 

Recommended Readings:   
Edmondson, Laura. 2005. “Marketing Trauma and the Theatre of War in Northern 
	Uganda.” Theatre Journal 57: 451–474. Irving, Andrew. 2007. “Ethnography, Art, and Death.” Journal of the Royal 
	Anthropological Institute 13: 185-208.

Week 9 –  November 13
	•	Imagining Silence 
Required Readings:   
Achino-Loeb, Maria-Luisa, eds. 2005. Silence: The Currency of Power. New York & 	Oxford: Berghahn Books.  

Week 10 –  November 20   
	•	Imaginings Workshop 1: Traces of Silence
Required Readings:   
Moodle: Kidron, Carol. 2009. “Toward an Ethnography of Silence: The Lived Presence of 	the             Past in the Everyday Life of Holocaust Trauma Survivors and Their Descendants              in Israel.” Current Anthropology 50 (1): 5-27.

Week 11 – November 27
	•	Imaginings Workshop 2: Traces of Silence
Required Readings:  Moodle:  Kazubowski-Houston, Magdalena. In press. “quiet theatre: The Radical Politics of             Silence.” Cultural Studies-Critical Methodologies. Special Issue, “A Marriage on 	the Rocks: Transdisciplinary Travels of Ethnography.” Kazubowski-Houston, 	Magdalena & Virginie Magnat, eds.    
Week 12 – December 4
	•	Imaginings Workshop 3: Traces of Silence  

3. LEARNING OUTCOMES 
 Students will learn:
	•	Key concepts, theories, and methodological approaches within the field of imaginative ethnography.
	•	Critical thinking and writing skills about imaginative ethnography research.
	•	Variety practical strategies for conducting imaginative ethnography.
	•	Basic principles of ethnographic research ethics. 
	•	Basic principles of ethnographic research design.   Students will meet these outcomes by the reading of theoretical texts, ethnographies, viewing recorded examples of imaginative ethnography, participating in practical workshops, and writing an imaginative ethnography. 

4. GRADED ASSESSEMENT 
                                                                                    Percentage     Due

Class attendance/participation:  	   		20%				
 Assignments
1st term: 
1) Imaginings Workshop 1: Traces of Silence	10% 		November 20
2) Imaginings Workshop 2: Traces of Silence	10%		November 27
3) Imaginings Workshop 3: Traces of Silence	10%		December 4
4) Written Imaginative Ethnography 			30%		December 10
5) Presentation on Assigned Readings		20%		TBA

Attendance/Participation 	
Attendance and active participation in seminars is mandatory and essential for the 
successful completion of this course. Students are required to come to seminars having completed all readings assigned for a given week. Attendance will be taken each week on a sign-in sheet circulated at the start of the seminar. Students will be marked on their participation for each seminar, and the final participation grade will be cumulative. All absences and lateness not excused by a doctor’s note will result in grade deductions. Students with more than one absence over the course of the semester will have one half-letter grade deducted from the participation component of their course grade for each subsequent absence. 

Tardiness: Anyone arriving to class more than 15 minutes late will be counted as absent for that day’s session.

Failure to attend seminars will result in either academic penalty or a request that the student withdraw from the course.


Assignment Details

	•	Imaginings Workshops 1-3: Traces of Silence – these workshops explore silence as an imaginative method for a critical and interventionist ethnography. Rather than equating silence solely with absence, deficit, or pathology, students will be encouraged to explore silence as an alternative, tacit form of knowing; a means of expression, communication, and meaning-making; complex interworkings of power; capillaries of sociality; affective lived memories; and a wellspring of the uncertain, the possible, and the speculative. In Workshop 1 (November 20th), students will collect, photograph, film, draw, and record “traces of silence” found in objects, places, actions, gestures, images, sounds, feelings, and sensations around the Humber River-Black Creek area, which passes through the York University campus. Subsequently, students will briefly present and discuss their “findings” in the classroom. In Workshop 2 (November 27th), students will work in small groups to devise a short three-minute imaginative ethnography piece (e.g. performative, visual, auditory, textile, literary) based on their “found” silent lifeworlds. In Workshop 3 (December 4th), students will archive, perform, present, and story-tell their imaginative ethnography pieces, which will serve as a starting point for a discussion on what an interventionist ethnography, that engages the imagination and creativity, might look like. Each workshop is worth 10% of the final course grade. Detailed instructions for the workshop will be provided in class. 

	•	Written Ethnography – students will write a short sample ethnography (15 pp) based on insights gained in the “Imaginings Workshops: Traces of Silence,” and from the course readings. The written ethnography can be accompanied by alternative forms of representation (e.g. photographs, images, drawings, short films, performance recordings, textile art forms, etc.). The alternative forms of representation will not be included in the 15-page word limit. In this assignment, students will describe and analyze their imaginative ethnographic processes and ensuing ethnographic representations with an eye to their own positionality and engagement as ethnographers. Students will describe and critically examine their findings through analytical, creative, and imaginative writing. The Written Ethnography is due on December 10th, and is to be emailed to mkazubow@yorku.ca.  
	•	Presentation on Assigned Readings – should be 20-30 minutes in duration, and consist of a critical analysis of the readings assigned for a given week. As this assignment is meant to provide students with an opportunity to develop their pedagogical and presentation skills, you are encouraged to employ visual aids as well as performative and creative strategies in your presentations. 

5. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 

Grading, Assignment Submission, Lateness Penalties:    

Grading:  The grading scheme for the course conforms to the Faculty of Graduate Studies grading scheme. Note that the percentages indicated are not part of the official grading scheme and are meant only to be used as guidelines. 

A+
(Exceptional)
90 – 100%
A
(Excellent)
85 – 89%
A-
(High)
80 – 84%
B+
(Highly Satisfactory)
75 – 79%
B
(Satisfactory)
70 – 74%
C
(Conditional)
60 – 69%
F
(Failure)
0 – 59%
I
(Incomplete)
N/A

 
Assignment Submission: Proper academic performance depends on students doing their work not only well, but on time.  Accordingly, assignments for this course must be received on the due date specified for the assignment.  You must submit all written assignments in class. I will not accept submissions via e-mail or Moodle. 

Lateness Penalty: Assignments not handed in before lecture on the due date will be penalized half of a letter grade (1 grade point) for every day that the assignment is late. Assignments that are more than one week late will not be accepted unless special permission has been granted. Exceptions to the lateness penalty for valid reasons such as illness, compassionate grounds, etc., may be entertained by the Course Instructor, but will require supporting documentation (e.g. a doctor’s letter). 
Academic Honesty and Integrity:          
Students are required to maintain high standards of academic integrity and are subject to the Faculty of Graduate Studies policies on Academic Honesty:
http://www.yorku.ca/grads/policies_procedures/academic_honesty.html 

Copyright Law

These course materials are designed for use as part of the GS: THST 6329 course at York University and are the property of the instructor unless otherwise stated. Third party copyrighted materials (such as book chapters, journal articles, music, videos, etc.) have either been licensed for use in this course or fall under an exception or limitation in Canadian Copyright law. Copying this material for distribution (e.g. uploading material to a commercial third-party website) may lead to a violation of Copyright law. 
  
	•	Ethics Review Process:            
York students are subject to the York University Policy for the Ethics Review Process for Research Involving Human Participants. In particular, students proposing to undertake research involving human participants (e.g., interviewing the director of a company or government agency, having students complete a questionnaire, etc.) are required to submit an Application for Ethical Approval of Research Involving Human Participants at least one month before you plan to begin the research. If you are in doubt as to whether this requirement applies to you, contact your Course Director immediately 
 
Accommodations:

Academic Accommodation for Students with Disabilities

STUDIO BOOKING POLICY:
Rehearsal space is always at a premium in the Department of Theatre. Please note the following:
	•	The studios are available only within the following hours:  Mon-Fri 8:00am-10:00pm and Sat-Sun 10:00am-6:00pm 
	•	All spaces must be booked one week in advance and will be accepted only until 4:00pm on Thursday the previous week. 
	•	Requests must be submitted each week for a room unless special arrangements have been made
	•	You cannot “claim” a space by writing in your name or the course name in an empty slot on the weekly schedules posted outside each space
	•	Spaces must be returned to neutral at the end of each booking session. There will be a picture of what “neutral” is in each studio.

To book a studio space contact the Theatre Facilities Assistant (tfa@yorku.ca) including the following information your full name, student ID, program, brief explanation of what the space is being used for. 


				

