Disciplinary permutations & the vulnerable observer

{{Unless otherwise noted, the following are lifted from Emma's discussion from the class this week}}

possible keyword: 'lifeworld'

what is your positionality? what are the facts you would see for yourself in your ethnographic research project?

what information about you is pertinent in helping your readers situate you within your work?

in situating yourself within your work?

would this information change depeneding on the subject of the ethnographic research?

FOr Carter: recent changes to anthopology are related to changes in the world. cuba doesn't end where land meets sea. 

talks about the challenge of time. 

Ruth Behar 

how does the notion of permission change based on whether you announce yourself as an ethnographer at the outset of a relationship?


do you feel vulnerable?


one are some of the pros and cons of being a member of one's on research commnity? of being an outsider?

is there a degree to which being the ethnoraphic researcher makes you an outsider, even if you were previously part of the community?


{{Alan's presentation on chapter 2 and 3}}

"declining rural social class of peasants"

built a monument because the town was going to disappear. 

Alan posited that those who live in urban spaces have a different (or less) of a sense of what community is.

everything that comes from earth is being replaced by cement
everything rural is becoming urban
bread is also being less important than money
fertility is less important than capitalism


is mourning a social or a self-reflexion?
	- do we mourn socially, or just for ourselves?

what unites us?
	- is it important to be united, or is it not?

if capitalism praises who is better than the other, are we going toward or away from community?

has history been more positive when we prosper as a society?

how hard is it to accept that everything you have done will be forgotten or not a part of history.
	- Alan points out that if Ruth hadn't written this book maybe the story wouldn't have been told otherwise.

asked us to each write down a name of a person we have lost: Nonno

with social media and vast information, are we more aware fo the importance of things, or not?

where is our heart, and where can our memories transport us?
	- Alan pointed to stanislavski's emotive memory

theatre tries to get us to be more human
	- possibly the goal of theatre as something.
	- are we making theatre to fight capitalism
	- or are we getting into capitalism to make something that fights it from within?

is it more important for us to know about art, or to have money in order to buy or do art?

what is happening with our emotions and the way we show them as individuals and as a society?

archive memory
	- based on what you see

distance memory
	- based on the past apart from yourself

duty memory
	- based on the responsibility that you have

holy theatre is based on rituals, and all the things that separate us from earth. 

theatre of cruelty, theatre should be a thing that separates us from other things, separates a person from their life, 


ethnography of refusal may be about not including parts of the story

Magda: 

What is the position of women in anthropology. 

what would it mean for women to be taken seriously in ethnographic practice. 

what are we writing about. 

auto-ethnography is an important type of ethnographic practice, but it calls into issue the 

need to primarily document and speak justice to the interlocutor's lives, but at the same time everything is a situated truth, and needs to be acknowledged. 

Ellie pointed out that she couldn't (despite trying) read this book critically, because emotionally it connected with her family. changed her priorities from reading as the scholar to reading as a child of parents. 

is it possible to read without thinking about yourself?

what does it mean to be intelligible?

Martin: "If you work in psychology, you can only go so far with your patients as you have with yourself."

>>>THIS: is it empathy, or is it projection?

theorizing about affect pushes one away from being able to use/recognize emotion. 

Jackie pointed out that emotion and affect are not from the perspective, perhaps, of someone who is on the autism spectrum

the notion of bias in early ethnography, there was a belief that if you're too close to the subject you can't do true ethnographic research. but now that is no longer upheld, because no matter how you do your work, you will always have a bias. in fact, there is something about going out to a distant land that you have no connection to, its a colonial act.	
	- the notion that there is always a bias, i.e. autoethnographic studies working with one's own family. 

example that magda gave was a conversation with a fellow ethnographer who was studying a group of elders in Poland. She (Magda) told us that one of the findings by this other person was that the catholic church was viewed by the elders 

stephanie pointed out that in disability studies, the idea that a person is an expert of their 

anything we know of others and of ourselves is always constructed by ourselves so there is no objective window. 

From Behar, page 6 "...tenderminded toughmindedness ... should be the goal of any inquiry involving humans observing other humans. ... What happend within the observer must be made known, Devereux insisted, if the nature of what has been observed is to be understood. The subjectivity of the observer, he noted, 'influences the course of the obserbed event as radically as inspection influences ('disturbs') the behaviour of an electron.' The observer 'never observes the behavioural event which would have taken plance in the his absence, nor hears an account identical with that which the same narrator would give to another person.'" (Behar 6) 

continued, THIS>>
"Yet because there is no clear and easy route by which to confront the self who observes, most professional observers develop defences, namely, 'methods,' that 'reduce anxiety and enable us to function efficiently.' Even saying, 'I am an anthropologist, this is fieldwork,' is a classic form of the use of a method to drain anxiety from situations in which we feel complicitous with structures of power, or helpless to release another from suffering, or at a loss as to whether to act or observe." (Behar 6)

THIS>>> its about building your project on rapport with the subject(s). you need to think about emotions, positionality, reflexivity, and how do you navigate these. 
	- fieldwork is improvisational. the tricky aspect of ethnographic practice is that you can't teach improvisation (?)

Elliot: Why is anthropology the expert on encountering the unknown? what could ethnography still learn from other disciplines? 