tendency for other scholars in other disciplines to disregard methodologies from anthroplogy: magda mentioned this and said that there is a kind of appropriation process. 

turf-claiming is in this neoliberal academic moment. everything is compared with the scientific, output-driven research, whereas anthropology can't do this, and even theatre and performance studies cant do it either. 

anthropology has become really textual. trend in new materialisms. itts become really in the head, and a criticism is that its been an appropriation of philosophy. 

magda is not saying that interdisciplinarity does not have its merits, but that its very complicated. 

Jackie pointed out that in academia, there isn't only one audience to read (read outside the academy)


===

clifford: writing culture -- debate on how we use and interpret text, literary focus

gave an image analysis of the book covers [i missed the first one on clifford, but the conquergood was interesting]:
	- conquergood has a facade of a building, and [name of presenter in class] said that when you try to look at something objectively you only see its exterior (possibly she used a different word), and that theatre can help go inside the [object?]


references de certeau
	- points out that that prevailing view was that literature is anything that is not science
	- clifford asks who has the authority to separate science from art?

clifford:
	critique of colonialism
	limits of representation
	science of language itself
		- semiotics and discourse analysis
			- there are a lot of limits on the ways that we discuss a subject
	critique of "visualism"
		- walter j ong: "looking at, objectifying, or reading a given reality" (11)

	clifford was aware of the fetishization of text itself
		- ethnography is a hybrid textual activity


>>>> this might be good to look at in terms of a possible comparison between text-based code and patch-based code. 
conquergood:

	textualism
		distance
		detachment
		disclosure
		containment/inscription/abstraction/closure (ricouer)

	performance
		immediace
		involvement 
		intimacy
		non-verbal dimension and embodied dynamics



clifford geertz: world as text model <<< posibly useful for the github 'world'
	- 'the culture of a 

	but to imagine that you can read everything is mistaken because '


	ricoeur: the model of the text: "meaningful action is a model for science..." (clifford 55)

	de certeau: set forth a performatibe theory of everdal life that celebrates the restless energies and subversive powers of knesis, 'this challenging mobility that oes not respect places' (de certeau in conquergood 55)


	clifford says culture is a kind of intervention

clifford
===

embodiment

"the whole point of embodiment is that no one will ever experience your body like you" (again I don't yet know the name of the person presenting)

madison
	- positionality and responsibility
	- representing the Other and another context
	social and self intertwined
	'intimate habitation' and coperformative witness
abu-lughod
	- the self is always in construction
	- putting self in opposition to the other creates violence and hierarchy
	- feminists and 'halfies' -- upset the singularity of identification


	sameness/difference/groups


	madison
		- local and global
		- must be contextualised
		activism
		acts of activism become performed stores that honour, through intimate habitation and performative witnessing, everyday actts of resistance
		performance activism is powerful because it honours the small stories, the embodied knowledge, the difference.
		difference does not negate the collective

	abu-luhgod
		rejection of a holistic, bounded 'culture'
		3 modes of rejecting culture:
			1. practice and discourse
			2. connections
			3. ethnographies of the particular





====

post presentation discussion:

	- 

	